doc/user/project/quick_actions.md, before:

# GitLab quick actions

Quick actions are textual shortcuts for common actions on issues, epics, merge requests,
and commits that are usually done by clicking buttons or dropdowns in GitLab's UI.
You can enter these commands while creating a new issue or merge request, or
in comments of issues, epics, merge requests, and commits. Each command should be
on a separate line in order to be properly detected and executed. Once executed,
the commands are removed from the text body and not visible to anyone else.

## Quick actions for issues and merge requests

The following quick actions are applicable to both issues and merge requests threads,
discussions, and descriptions:

| Command                    | Action                         | Issue | Merge request |
|:---------------------------|:------------------------------ |:------|:--------------|
| `/tableflip <Comment>`     | Append the comment with `(╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻` | ✓ | ✓        |
| `/shrug <Comment>`         | Append the comment with `¯\＿(ツ)＿/¯` | ✓ | ✓         |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo                     | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done              | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe                      | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe                    | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/close`                   | Close                          | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen                         | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title                   | ✓     |  ✓            |
| `/award :emoji:`           | Toggle emoji award             | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign me`               | Assign yourself                | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign @user`            | Assign one user                | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign @user1 @user2`    | Assign multiple users **[STARTER]** | ✓ | ✓            |
| `/unassign @user1 @user2`  | Remove assignee(s) **[STARTER]** | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/reassign @user1 @user2`  | Change assignee **[STARTER]**  | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unassign`                | Remove current assignee        | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/milestone %milestone`    | Set milestone                  | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_milestone`        | Remove milestone               | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/label ~label1 ~label2`   | Add label(s). Label names can also start without ~ but mixed syntax is not supported.                   | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unlabel ~label1 ~label2` | Remove all or specific label(s)| ✓     | ✓             |
| `/relabel ~label1 ~label2` | Replace label                  | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/copy_metadata #issue &#124; !merge_request</code> | Copy labels and milestone from other issue or merge request in the project | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/estimate &lt;1w 3d 2h 14m&gt;</code> | Set time estimate | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_estimate`       | Remove time estimate             | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/spend &lt;time(1h 30m &#124; -1h 5m)&gt; &lt;date(YYYY-MM-DD)&gt;</code> | Add or subtract spent time; optionally, specify the date that time was spent on | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_time_spent`       | Remove time spent              | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/lock`                    | Lock the discussion            | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unlock`                  | Unlock the discussion          | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/due &lt;in 2 days &#124; this Friday &#124; December 31st&gt;</code>| Set due date | ✓ | |
| `/remove_due_date`         | Remove due date                | ✓     |               |
| `/weight 0,1,2, ...`       | Set weight **[STARTER]**       | ✓     |               |
| `/clear_weight`            | Clears weight **[STARTER]**    | ✓     |               |
| `/epic <&epic &#124; group&epic &#124; Epic URL>` | Add to epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓ |             |
| `/remove_epic`             | Removes from epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓   |               |
| `/promote`                 | Promote issue to epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓   |               |
| `/confidential`            | Make confidential              | ✓     |               |
| `/duplicate #issue`        | Mark this issue as a duplicate of another issue | ✓    |
| `/move path/to/project`    | Move this issue to another project | ✓ |               |
| `/target_branch <Local branch Name>` | Set target branch    |       | ✓             |
| `/wip`                     | Toggle the Work In Progress status |   | ✓             |
| `/approve`                 | Approve the merge request      |       | ✓             |
| `/merge`                   | Merge (when pipeline succeeds) |       | ✓             |
| `/create_merge_request <branch name>` | Create a new merge request starting from the current issue | ✓ | |

## Quick actions for commit messages

The following quick actions are applicable for commit messages:

| Command                 | Action                                    |
|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| `/tag v1.2.3 <message>` | Tags this commit with an optional message |

## Quick actions for Epics **[ULTIMATE]**

The following quick actions are applicable for epics threads and description:

| Command                    | Action                                  |
|:---------------------------|:----------------------------------------|
| `/tableflip <Comment>`     | Append the comment with `(╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻` |
| `/shrug <Comment>`         | Append the comment with `¯\＿(ツ)＿/¯`  |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo                              |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done                       |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe                               |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe                             |
| `/close`                   | Close                                   |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen                                  |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title                            |
| `/award :emoji:`           | Toggle emoji award                      |
| `/label ~label1 ~label2`   | Add label(s)                            |
| `/unlabel ~label1 ~label2` | Remove all or specific label(s)         |
| `/relabel ~label1 ~label2` | Replace label                           |

Commit message:

Add documentation on epic add/remove child relations quick actions

doc/user/project/quick_actions.md, after:

# GitLab quick actions

Quick actions are textual shortcuts for common actions on issues, epics, merge requests,
and commits that are usually done by clicking buttons or dropdowns in GitLab's UI.
You can enter these commands while creating a new issue or merge request, or
in comments of issues, epics, merge requests, and commits. Each command should be
on a separate line in order to be properly detected and executed. Once executed,
the commands are removed from the text body and not visible to anyone else.

## Quick actions for issues and merge requests

The following quick actions are applicable to both issues and merge requests threads,
discussions, and descriptions:

| Command                    | Action                         | Issue | Merge request |
|:---------------------------|:------------------------------ |:------|:--------------|
| `/tableflip <Comment>`     | Append the comment with `(╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻` | ✓ | ✓        |
| `/shrug <Comment>`         | Append the comment with `¯\＿(ツ)＿/¯` | ✓ | ✓         |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo                     | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done              | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe                      | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe                    | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/close`                   | Close                          | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen                         | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title                   | ✓     |  ✓            |
| `/award :emoji:`           | Toggle emoji award             | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign me`               | Assign yourself                | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign @user`            | Assign one user                | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/assign @user1 @user2`    | Assign multiple users **[STARTER]** | ✓ | ✓            |
| `/unassign @user1 @user2`  | Remove assignee(s) **[STARTER]** | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/reassign @user1 @user2`  | Change assignee **[STARTER]**  | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unassign`                | Remove current assignee        | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/milestone %milestone`    | Set milestone                  | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_milestone`        | Remove milestone               | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/label ~label1 ~label2`   | Add label(s). Label names can also start without ~ but mixed syntax is not supported.                   | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unlabel ~label1 ~label2` | Remove all or specific label(s)| ✓     | ✓             |
| `/relabel ~label1 ~label2` | Replace label                  | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/copy_metadata &lt;#issue &#124; !merge_request&gt;</code> | Copy labels and milestone from other issue or merge request in the project | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/estimate &lt;1w 3d 2h 14m&gt;</code> | Set time estimate | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_estimate`       | Remove time estimate             | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/spend &lt;time(1h 30m &#124; -1h 5m)&gt; &lt;date(YYYY-MM-DD)&gt;</code> | Add or subtract spent time; optionally, specify the date that time was spent on | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/remove_time_spent`       | Remove time spent              | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/lock`                    | Lock the discussion            | ✓     | ✓             |
| `/unlock`                  | Unlock the discussion          | ✓     | ✓             |
| <code>/due &lt;in 2 days &#124; this Friday &#124; December 31st&gt;</code>| Set due date | ✓ | |
| `/remove_due_date`         | Remove due date                | ✓     |               |
| <code>/weight &lt;0 &#124; 1 &#124; 2 &#124; ...&gt;</code> | Set weight **[STARTER]**       | ✓     |               |
| `/clear_weight`            | Clears weight **[STARTER]**    | ✓     |               |
| <code>/epic &lt;&epic &#124; group&epic &#124; Epic URL&gt;</code> | Add to epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓ |             |
| `/remove_epic`             | Removes from epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓   |               |
| `/promote`                 | Promote issue to epic **[ULTIMATE]** | ✓   |               |
| `/confidential`            | Make confidential              | ✓     |               |
| `/duplicate <#issue>`        | Mark this issue as a duplicate of another issue | ✓    |
| `/move <path/to/project>`    | Move this issue to another project | ✓ |               |
| `/target_branch <Local branch Name>` | Set target branch    |       | ✓             |
| `/wip`                     | Toggle the Work In Progress status |   | ✓             |
| `/approve`                 | Approve the merge request      |       | ✓             |
| `/merge`                   | Merge (when pipeline succeeds) |       | ✓             |
| `/create_merge_request <branch name>` | Create a new merge request starting from the current issue | ✓ | |

## Quick actions for commit messages

The following quick actions are applicable for commit messages:

| Command                 | Action                                    |
|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------|
| `/tag v1.2.3 <message>` | Tags this commit with an optional message |

## Quick actions for Epics **[ULTIMATE]**

The following quick actions are applicable for epics threads and description:

| Command                    | Action                                  |
|:---------------------------|:----------------------------------------|
| `/tableflip <Comment>`     | Append the comment with `(╯°□°)╯︵ ┻━┻` |
| `/shrug <Comment>`         | Append the comment with `¯\＿(ツ)＿/¯`  |
| `/todo`                    | Add a todo                              |
| `/done`                    | Mark todo as done                       |
| `/subscribe`               | Subscribe                               |
| `/unsubscribe`             | Unsubscribe                             |
| `/close`                   | Close                                   |
| `/reopen`                  | Reopen                                  |
| `/title <New title>`       | Change title                            |
| `/award :emoji:`           | Toggle emoji award                      |
| `/label ~label1 ~label2`   | Add label(s)                            |
| `/unlabel ~label1 ~label2` | Remove all or specific label(s)         |
| `/relabel ~label1 ~label2` | Replace label                           |
| <code>/child_epic &lt;&epic &#124;  group&epic &#124; Epic URL&gt;</code> | Add referenced epic as child to current epic |
| <code>/remove_child_epic &lt;&epic &#124; group&epic &#124; Epic URL&gt;</code> | Remove referenced epic from current epic's children |
